#http://www.eflnet.com/pverbs/phrasal_verb_particle.php
BACK DOWN
    (intransitive) to concede in a disagreement

    The mugger backed down when he saw that Max was carrying a 9mm handgun.
BREAK DOWN
    (intransitive) to lose control of one's emotions

    Max broke down in tears when he heard that Mary had been arrested.
BREAK DOWN
    (intransitive) to stop functioning

    John had to learn to become a good mechanic as his car was always breaking down.
BRING DOWN
    (separable) to cause to fall

    Michael Moore is hoping to bring the Bush administration down.
BURN DOWN
    (separable) to destroy by fire

    Please don't smoke in bed for you may burn the house down.
CALM DOWN
    (separable) to stop being emotionally distressed

    Max was so upset that nothing could calm him down.
COME DOWN
    (intransitive) to descend, fall, go down

    It’s been hot all day. Finally the temperature is starting to come down a bit.
COME DOWN
    (intransitive) to precipitate, fall from clouds

    Snow has been coming down for about 2 hours now.
COME DOWN
    (intransitive) to reduce to the essential element

    In politics everything really just comes down to the economy.
COME DOWN
    (intransitive) to become sick

    Max came down with the flu.
COME DOWN
    (intransitive) to criticize

    Max came down on Mary for not washing the dishes after dinner.
COPY DOWN
    (separable) to record in writing

    Max told Mary about the idea. She copied it down and sold it to the highest bidder.
CUT DOWN
    (inseparable) to reduce

    Max decided to cut down his alcohol consumption.
DIE DOWN
    (intransitive) to decrease

    The noise from the party finally died down around four in the morning.
FALL DOWN
    (intransitive) to fall to the ground or floor

    Mary fell down and hurt her left knee.
GET DOWN
    (intransitive) to descend or lower

    Max got down on his knees and prayed.
GET DOWN
    (intransitive) give one’s consideration or attention (used with to)

    Now that we’ve finished lunch, I am ready to get down to business.
GET DOWN
    (separable) to depress, exhaust or discourage

    Talking about politics really gets me down.
GET DOWN
    (separable) to put in writing

    Did you get everything I said down?
GO DOWN
    (intransitive) to go under; to drop below the horizon; to sink

    I hope to get to the beach before the sun goes down.
GO DOWN
    (intransitive) to ingest

    Water goes down especially well after a long hard soccer match.
HOLD DOWN
    (separable) to keep a job

    Mary has never been able to hold down a job.
HUNT DOWN
    (separable) to pursue to find or capture someone or something

    Max hunted the waitress down, so that he could order dinner.
JOT DOWN
    (separable) to copy down or make a note of

    Max jotted down a few notes as the professor spoke.
KEEP DOWN
    (separable) to control; subdue; repress

    You can have a party, but please keep the noise down as much as possible.
KNEEL DOWN
    (intransitive) to go down on your knees

    Before he goes to bed, Max kneels down to pray.
LET DOWN
    (separable) to disappoint

    The team let the coach down.
LIE DOWN
    (intransitive) to recline

    I like to lie down in my hammock and read.
MARK DOWN
    (separable) to reduce prices

    K-mart often marks its prices down.
MARK DOWN
    (separable) to write or make a note on something

    Max marked the phone number down so that he wouldn’t forget it.
PLAY DOWN
    (separable) to make something seem less important

    Max played down his car accident so that his mother wouldn't get worried.
PULL DOWN
    (separable) to pull something so that it comes down

    When Max drinks too much, he sometimes pulls his pants down in public.
PUT DOWN
    (separable) to kill a sick or injured animal (usually out of mercy)

    The vet said it was necessary to put down the race horse because of its broken leg.
PUT DOWN
    (separable) to insult or make disparaging remarks about someone

    I feel sorry for Max. Everytime he and Mary get together with their friends Mary puts him down in front of everybody.
QUIET DOWN
    (separable) to be less noisy

    Class, please quiet down. I'm trying to think.
SETTLE DOWN
    (separable) to get someone to become calm

    Settle John down. The neighbors are trying to sleep.
SETTLE DOWN
    (intransitive) to become calm; to start living a quiet family life

    Max started to look for a wife because he thought it was time to settle down.
SHOOT DOWN
    (separable) to make something hit the ground by shooting it

    yugoslavia shot down one US warplane.
SIMMER DOWN
    (intransitive) to become less angry

    Bill allowed his wife to simmer down before he asked for forgiveness.
TAKE DOWN
    (separable) to lower

    Max took his pants down so that the nurse could give him an injection.
TAKE DOWN
    (separable) to dismantle; disassemble; take apart

    Max took down his tent and went home.
TAKE DOWN
    (separable) to lower one’s self-esteem

    Mary’s constant criticism has taken Max down considerably.
TURN DOWN
    (separable) to reject

    Bill asked 100 girls to go out on a date with him. All but one turned him down.
TURN DOWN
    (separable) to decrease

    Please turn the radio down. It's too loud.
WATER DOWN
    (separable) to make weaker

    Don't go to that bar. The bartender waters down all of the drinks.
WEAR DOWN
    (separable) to cause to be worn or weak

    Your constant nagging is wearing me down.
WRITE DOWN
    (separable) to record in writing



ASK IN
    (separable) to request someone to come in

    At the end of the date, I asked Mary in.
BASH IN
    (separable) to damage something by hitting it violently

    Vandals bashed in the windows of my new Lamborghini.
BLEND IN
    (intransitive) to match or look the same as the surroundings

    In Max's neighborhood, if you don't blend in, you'll get beat up.
BREAK IN
    (intransitive) to forcibly enter a building

    Max called the police when he thought he heard someone breaking in.
BREAK IN
    (separable) to work or repeatedly use something so that it becomes comfortable or easily usable

    Max's shoes hurt him as he had not yet broke them in.
BRING IN
    (separable) to earn money

    Jill hates her new job, but she’s bringing in a lot of money.
BRING IN
    (separable) to reach a verdict

    The judge declared a mistrial because the jury could not bring in a verdict.
BRING IN
    (separable) to arrest someone; to bring someone to the police station (usually for questioning)

    The police brought Max in for robbing the bank.
BUTT IN
    (intransitive) to enter a conversation uninvited

    "Excuse me for butting in, but I couldn't help overhearing..."
CHECK IN
    (separable) to register(usually at a hotel, airport, or hospital)

    The terrorist sweated nervously as he checked his baggage in.
COLOR IN
    (separable) to fill with color (usually an outline)

    Max happily colored in the pictures in his textbook.
COME IN
    (intransitive) to arrive, get in

    News came in that next year’s car models have just come in.
COME IN
    (intransitive) to place in a race or contest

    Frank came in second in the Boston Marathon.
COME IN
    (intransitive) to be received (signal)

    No matter how much Max adjusted the antenna, the radio station just didn’t come in very well.
FILL IN
    (separable) to complete where needed

    Please fill in the blanks.
FIT IN
    (intransitive) to get along with others in a group

    Bill decided to go into politics when he discovered he didn't fit in anywhere else.
GET IN
    (intransitive) to arrive

    When did you get in from Paris?
HAND IN
    (separable) to turn in or give work you have done

    Max was embarrassed about handing in his homework late.
JUMP IN
    (intransitive) to join an activity while it’s in progress; to interrupt

    I was telling the story to Mary, but Max kept jumping in.
LOCK IN
    (separable) to lock the door so that someone can't leave

    Mary was afraid that Max might flee, so she locked him in.
RUSH IN
    (intransitive) to enter quickly

    The students rushed in because they were eager to learn.
STAY IN
    (intransitive) to not go out

    Bill decided to stay in this weekend because he was tired of going out.
TAKE IN
    (separable) to reduce in size; make smaller

    Max lost a lot of weight and had to have all of his pants taken in.
TAKE IN
    (separable) to give shelter to; to receive as a guest, or lodger

    The Smiths took Barney in while he was in town.
TAKE IN
    (separable) to see for enjoyment

    We took in the sights in the morning and took in a movie later in the evening.
TRADE IN
    (separable) to exchange something (usually used) for payment or partial payment for something else.

    Max traded his old jalopy in as a down payment on a new BMW.
TURN IN
    (separable) to submit or give work done for someone

    Max turns in his homework almost always on time.

BREAK INTO
    (inseparable) to forcibly enter

    Mary broke into the car to steal the stereo.
COME INTO
    (inseparable) to acquire

    Mary came into a lot of money when her grandfather passed away.
GET INTO
    (inseparable) to be involved with

    If you get into the wrong crowd, you are likely to get into a lot of trouble.
LOOK INTO
    (inseparable) to investigate

    The grand jury is looking into the allegations that bribes influenced the mayor's actions.
RUN INTO
    (inseparable) to meet unexpectedly

    I was surprised when I ran into Bill on the way to the store yesterday.
TALK INTO
    (separable) to persuade to do something

    Max talked Mary into going to Mexico with him.
BLOW OFF
    (separable) to remove with powerful force

    The bomb blew the roof off the house.
CALL OFF
    (separable) to cancel

    Mary decided to call off her wedding with max.
COME OFF
    (intransitive) to appear

    George doesn’t come off as being very intelligent.
COME OFF
    (intransitive) to fare, happen in a particular manner

    The meeting came off as well as could be expected.
COME OFF
    (inseparable) to have recently completed or recovered from

    After coming off a nasty hip injury, Andre went on to win the US Open.
DOZE OFF
    (intransitive) to fall asleep

    You know you're a boring speaker when your entire audience dozes off.
DROP OFF
    (separable) to unload or deliver (on the way to somewhere else)

    If you’re going to the store, could you drop me off at Mary’s house on the way?
DROP OFF
    (intransitive) to decline (in number)

    Towards the end of the school year university enrollment numbers drop off a little.
FIGHT OFF
    (separable) to keep something or someone away

    Bill had trouble fighting all of the young ladies off.
GET OFF
    (inseparable) to dismount

    Max got off his bicycle to tie his shoe
GET OFF
    (intransitive) to receive a lesser punishment than what might be expected

    Mary got off with only two years in prison for the attempted murder of Max.
GET OFF
    (intransitive) to receive extreme pleasure

    Max gets off on burning ants with his magnifying glass.
GET OFF
    (separable) to give great pleasure

    Burning ants gets Max off.
GO OFF
    (intransitive) to explode; detonate

    Bombs went off all around the city.
GO OFF
    (intransitive) to happen in a particular manner

    Mary’s dinner party last night went off very well.
KEEP OFF
    (inseparable) to not walk on

    Please keep off the grass.
KEEP OFF
    (inseparable) to not consume

    Scott is having a difficult time keeping of drugs.
LAY OFF
    (separable) to dismiss from a job

    General Motors usually lays workers off just before Christmas so that the CEO can get a large bonus.
LOP OFF
    (separable) to cut something off (a limb or branch of a tree)

    The carpenter accidentally lopped off two of his fingers when he was cutting some wood.
NOD OFF
    (intransitive) to fall asleep (usually not intending to)

    Mary nodded off in English class.
PAY OFF
    (separable) to pay all of the money you owe

    Some day I hope to pay off my student loans.
PUT OFF
    (separable) to postpone

    Many students put off doing their homework until it is almost too late.
RIP OFF
    (separable) to steal something

    Max ripped twenty dollars off from that old lady.
SHAVE OFF
    (separable) to remove hair by shaving

    Michael Jordan first shaved off all of his hair when he was in his twenties.
SHOW OFF
    (separable) to try to impress by doing or showing

    When Bill did that trick with the cigar, he was just showing off.
SHRUG OFF
    (separable) to dismiss something as unimportant

    The president shrugged off his extremely low poll numbers.
TAKE OFF
    (separable) to remove from something

    I'm going to take my jacket off. It's hot in here. Take you hand off my knee. I'm not that kind of girl.
TAKE OFF
    (intransitive) to depart (aircraft)

    When the plane takes off, you must have your seatbelt on and your seat must be in its upright position.
TEAR OFF
    (separable) to remove something by tearing

    Chastain made headlines when she tore off her jersey after scoring the winning goal.
TIP OFF
    (separable) to inform

    Max tipped off the police about the imminent terrorist attack.
TURN OFF
    (separable) to switch a machine or electrical device to the off posiiton

    Please turn off the lights when you leave the room.
TURN OFF
    (separable) to disgust

    Selfish people really turn me off.
WEAR OFF
    (separable) to no longer affect someone

    Oh no, call the doctor. the drugs are wearing off.
WIPE OFF
    (separable) to clean a surface by dragging a towel or sponge across it

    After dinner, please wipe off the table and wash the dishes.
ADD ON
    (separable) to increase or enhance something by joining or uniting something to it

    We've decided to add on another bedroom to the house.
BONE UP ON
    (inseparable) to review, study, or practice a subject for a short period of time

    I need to bone up on my math as I have a university entrance exam at the end of the month.
BRING ON
    (separable) to cause to appear

    Bring on the birthday cake!
BRUSH UP ON
    (intransitive) to practice; to improve your skill or knowledge

    Max went back to school to brush up on mathematics.
CARRY ON
    (intransitive) to continue

    Max was not sure if he could carry on any longer.
CATCH ON
    (intransitive) to become popular

    Max is hoping that being short, fat, and bald will catch on.
CHEER ON
    (separable) to support or encourage with shouts of praise

    The crowd at the marathon cheered the runners on.
COME ON
    (inseparable) to advance progressively

    Our soccer game ended as darkness came on.
COME ON
    (intransitive) to project a particular personal image

    Mary comes on as a very serious person, but is actually quite fun.
COME ON
    (intransitive) to start running, become available

    I wish the electricity would come on again. It’s dark in here
DRAG ON
    (intransitive) to continue for what seems to be an extrememly long time

    The politicians speech dragged on and on.
HOLD ON
    (intransitive) to wait

    Hold on a moment. I need to tie my shoe.
KEEP ON
    (intransitive) to continue

    No matter how many times you fail, you must keep on trying.
LOOK DOWN ON
    (inseparable) to consider inferior

    The rich lady looked down on the poor homeless people in the park.
MOVE ON
    (intransitive) to progress onwards

    Let's move on. I'm tired of talking about that.
PUT ON
    (separable) to dress oneself with; to wear; to don

    Mary put her best dress on.
PUT ON
    (separable) to produce; perform

    The theater group put on a great show.
PUT ON
    (separable) to fool; mislead for amusement

    You’re putting me on!
TAKE ON
    (separable) undertake; assume; acquire

    Max took on a lot of new responsibilities.
TAKE ON
    (separable) to contend against an opponent

    I think I can take on Mike Tyson.
TRY ON
    (separable) to put clothes on to see if it fits

    Be sure to try athletic shoes on before you buy them.
TURN ON
    (separable) to switch on ; to cause to operate or flow

    Max was bored so he turned the TV on.
TURN ON
    (separable) to excite pleasurably

    Mathematics turns me on.

ASK OUT
    (separable) to request someone to go on a date with you

    I asked Mary out again. She refused.
BAIL OUT
    (intransitive) to jump out of an airplane (usually when it’s going to crash)

    Luckily the pilot bailed out before his plane hit the side of the mountain.
BAIL OUT
    (intransitive) to quit or stop doing something (usually when experiencing difficulties)

    The congressional candidate bailed out of the race because there was no hope that he could raise enough money to win.
BAIL OUT
    (separable) to rescue someone from a difficult situation

    Max’s uncle bailed him out of the financial problems he was having.
BLACK OUT
    (intransitive) to lose consciousness momentarily

    Max had a very severe headache and blacked out several times, so his doctor admitted him to the hospital.
BREAK OUT
    (intransitive) to suddenly develop or erupt

    A riot broke out in Los Angeles today.
CHICKEN OUT
    (intransitive) not to do something because of fear

    Max wanted to ask Mary out on a date, but he chickened out.
COME OUT
    (intransitive) to become known, to come into public view, to debut

    The news of the candidates past sexual misconduct came out just before the election.
COME OUT
    (intransitive) to turn out, result

    Everything came out fine in the end
COME OUT
    (intransitive) to declare one’s position publicly

    The senator came out against gay marriage.
COME OUT
    (intransitive) to reveal that oneself as homosexual

    After years of trying to act straight, Max finally came out.
CROSS OUT
    (separable) to draw a line through something

    I didn’t have an eraser, so I had to cross out my mistakes instead.
DISH OUT
    (separable) to allocate, dispense, or distribute food from a container

    After dinner, Max dished out some delicious fruit salad for desert.
DROWN OUT
    (separable) to make a sound inaudible with a louder sound

    Max uses his iPod to drown out all of the people’s voices around him.
EAT OUT
    (intransitive) to go out to a restaurant to eat

    Max was tired of eating out, so he stayed home and had a TV dinner.
EMPTY OUT
    (separable) to remove everything from a container making it empty

    Max emptied the refrigerator out.
EMPTY OUT
    (intransitive) to be vacated by people

    The concert hall emptied out as soon as the concert was over.
EVEN OUT
    (separable) to make something measure the same as something else

    Max has trouble evening out his sideburns since one ear is lower than the other.
FIND OUT
    (separable) to learn or discover

    Mary was mad when she found out that she was adopted.
GET OUT
    (intransitive) to become known

    The news about Mary got out very quickly.
GET OUT
    (intransitive) to escape or leave

    Sam wouldn’t stop talking so we asked him to get out.
GET OUT
    (separable) cause to escape or leave

    Please get that cat out of here.
GIVE OUT
    (inseparable) to distribute

    Mary is very happy that they give needles out at the local clinic.
HAND OUT
    (separable) to distribute

    Lee Harvey often handed out leaflets on the street corner.
KICK OUT
    (separable) to force to leave

    The bouncers kicked Max out of the bar for starting a fight.
KNOCK OUT
    (intransitive) to make someone unconscious

    That last drink I had really knocked me out.
LEAVE OUT
    (separable) to not include

    A margarita is not a margarita if you leave the tequila out.
LOCK OUT
    (separable) to lock the door so that someone can't enter

    Jane locked Jack out of the bathroom because she wanted some privacy.
LOOK OUT
    (intransitive) to be careful; watchful; to protect someone’s interests

    Most politicians just look out for themselves and their wealthy constituents. They have little regard for the average person.
PASS OUT
    (separable) to distribute

    The teacher passed the assignment out.
PASS OUT
    (intransitive) to lose consciousness

    Mary was so tired that she passed out as soon as she got home.
PICK OUT
    (separable) to choose

    When shopping for watermelon, I like to pick out the biggest.
PRINT OUT
    (separable) to print something from a computer

    I need to buy some more paper for my printer so that I can print out my report for history class.
PUT OUT
    (separable) to extinguish

    The firefighters put the fire out.
PUT OUT
    (separable) to publish; issue

    The government put out a news brief to misinform the public.
PUT OUT
    (separable) to exert, extend

    The workers put out considerable effort to get the job done on time.
PUT OUT
    (separable) to expel

    Please put the cat out.
RUSH OUT
    (intransitive) to exit quickly

    The workers all rushed out because it was time to go home.
SELL OUT
    (separable) to sell everything in the store

    We can't go to the concert. The tickets have been sold out
SELL OUT
    (separable) to compromise one's values for personal gain

    Catherine sold out. I guess power and money mean more to her than what she said were her personal values.
SHOUT OUT
    (separable) to speak very loudly; to announce

    Max shouted the directions to his house out.
SORT OUT
    (separable) to arrange or separate by type, class, category, etc.

    Max sorted his socks out.
SORT OUT
    (separable) to resolve problems or difficulties

    Max tried to sort out the misunderstanding he had with Mary.
STAND OUT
    (intransitive) to be prominent or conspicuous

    Max’s car stands out among all of the cars in the parking lot because of its florescent green paintjob. 
STAY OUT
    (intransitive) to not return home past the regular time

    Bill got angry when his wife stayed out all night.
TAKE OUT
    (separable) to take someone on a date

    Max took Mary out to a fancy restaurant.
TAKE OUT
    (separable) to extract; remove

    Max takes out the trash every night.
THAW OUT
    (intransitive) to change from a frozen state to a non-frozen state

    The ice-covered lakes thaw out in the springtime.
THAW OUT
    (separable) to cause something to change from a frozen state to a non-frozen state by warming it

    The warm sun thawed out the icy sidewalk.
THROW OUT
    (separable) to discard

    Mary threw out all of her old clothes.
TRY OUT
    (separable) to test to see if something is suitable

    I'm going to try out some new recipes for dinner this week.
TURN OUT
    (separable) to switch off

    Please turn out the lights.
WALK OUT
    (intransitive) to leave as a sign of protest

    The workers walked out to protest the low wages.

ACT UP
    (intransitive) to behave poorly(human);to reoccur(disease);to malfunction(machine)

    I think I'll stand rather than sit because my hemorrhoids are acting up again
ADD UP
    (intransitive) to result in a certain total

    I've calculated that over and over, but it just doesn't add up.
BACK UP
    (separable) to go in reverse

    When Steve passed the beautiful girl hitchhiking on the freeway, he immediately stopped the car, backed up, and offered her a ride.
BACK UP
    (separable) to help or support

    I will back my friends up no matter what they do.
BACK UP
    (separable) to make copies of computer files just in case something happens to the original files

    Please be sure to back up your files before you go home each day.
BALL UP
    (separable) to roll or form something into a round shape

    When max does his laundry, instead of folding everything nicely when it’s done, he just balls everything up and throws it in a bag.
BEAT UP
    (separable) to hurt someone by hitting and/or kicking them repeatedly

    The bully beat the other kids up for their lunch money.
BLOW UP
    (separable) to inflate

    Al's job was to sell the balloons. Jim's job was to blow them up.
BLOW UP
    (separable) to explode or to destroy something with an explosion

    Mary was arrested for blowing up Max's car with a homemade bomb.
BLOW UP
    (intransitive) to suddenly become angry

    The teacher blew up when she discovered that the students hadn't done their homework.
BREAK UP
    (separable) to cause to disperse or scatter

    What time did the cops break the party up last night?
BRING UP
    (separable) to mention

    When talking to Mary, Max never brings up her criminal record.
BRING UP
    (separable) to raise or rear

    Mowgli was a boy brought up by wolves.
CALL UP
    (separable) to telephone

    Mary called the priest up to tell him the wedding was off.
CHEER UP
    (intransitive) to become happier or less miserable

    Max cheered up at the end of the night.
CHEER UP
    (separable) to make someone become happier or less miserable

    We tried very hard to cheer Mary up, but nothing we did worked.
CLEAN UP
    (separable) to clean completely

    When living with others it is important to clean up after yourself.
COME UP
    (intransitive) to be mentioned

    In Max's conversation with Mary, the topic of their wedding never came up.
COME UP
    (intransitive) to approach, draw near

    Mary came up and introduced herself.
CRANK UP
    (separable) to increase the power or volume

    Every time that song comes on the radio, I crank it up.
DIG UP
    (separable) to look for and find hidden things or information

    Mary was paid thousands of dollars to dig up some dirt on that promising politician.
DRAW UP
    (separable) to prepare

    Lee Harvey was happy to have the Soviets draw up the assassination plans.
DREAM UP
    (separable) to think of (something new)

    The CIA and the KGB were always dreaming up new ways of keeping tabs on each other.
DRESS UP
    (separable) to put on formal or very nice clothing

    Mary likes to dress her son up to go to church.
DRINK UP
    (separable) to finish a drink

    Bobby drank his juice up and went to bed.
EAT UP
    (separable) to finish a meal

    You must eat up all of your vegetables before you can have cake.
END UP
    (intransitive) to arrive at a destination or result which may be unplanned or unexpected

    Max drank so much last night that he ended up in a strange bed in a strange apartment.
FILL UP
    (separable) to fill completely

    You can borrow my car, but please fill up the tank before you return it.
FREE UP
    (separable) to make something available (it was previously unavailable)

    Getting fired from my job freed up my schedule quite a bit. Now I can go to the beach anytime I want.
GET UP
    (intransitive) to rise to one’s feet or arise from bed; to climb

    Mary gets up at sunrise to go jogging every morning.
GET UP
    (separable) to cause to rise

    Mary got Max up early this morning so that he could make her breakfast.
GIVE UP
    (separable) to stop, quit, or abandon

    Max gave up smoking ten years ago.
GROW UP
    (intransitive) to change from child to adult

    Mary thinks that Max will never grow up.
HANG UP
    (separable) to place something on something (usually a hook or hanger) so that it doesn't touch the ground; to terminate a phone call

    Max gets irritated with Mary for not hanging up her clothes after she does the laundry.
HIKE UP
    (separable) to pull up or raise (usually clothing)

    When he crossed the flooded street, Max hiked up his pants, so they wouldn’t get wet.
HIKE UP
    (separable) to suddenly raise in amount

    Every summer oil companies hike up gas prices. Once Boxmart has destroyed all of its competition in a certain area, they hike up their prices.
HURRY UP
    (intransitive) to do faster

    Hurry up. We are running late.
HUSH UP
    (intransitive) to become quiet

    After the teacher screamed at the top of her lungs, the children hushed up.
HUSH UP
    (separable) to make someone become quiet

    The teacher hushed up the kids.
KEEP UP
    (separable) to maintain in good condition; to persist; persevere in

    Excellent work! Keep it up.
KEEP UP
    (separable) to prevent from going to sleep

    The neighbor’s barking dog kept me up all night.
KEEP UP
    (intransitive) to stay informed

    Max reads the newspaper in order to keep up with current events.
KEEP UP
    (intransitive) maintain a required pace or level in competition (often in lifestyle)

    Max spent all of his money and time trying to keep up with his neighbors.
LIFT UP
    (separable) to elevate something

    Max could not lift Mary up because she was too heavy.
LINE UP
    (intransitive) to stand in a line

    The prisoners had to line up before they could enter the dining hall.
LINE UP
    (separable) to put in a row

    Max likes to line up his dominos and then knock them down.
LOOK UP
    (separable) to find information in a book, or booklike source

    Mary decided to look up her ex-boyfriend's phone number
MAKE UP
    (separable) to invent (a story)

    Bill is good at making up stories to get himself out of trouble.
MEASURE UP
    (intransitive) to reach a standard or expectation

    Mary would not marry Max because she felt that he just didn’t measure up.
MESS UP
    (separable) to make disorganized or messy

    Please do not mess up the house. We are having guests over tonight.
OPEN UP
    (intransitive) to talk openly

    Max was the only one that Mary would ever open up to.
PERK UP
    (intransitive) to become more cheerful or lively

    The movie perked up a little at the end, but overall it was quite dull.
PERK UP
    (separable) to cause to be more cheerful or lively

    Tom brought some flowers to Mary in the hospital. He was hoping to perk her up with them. Unfortunately, she is allergic to flowers.
PUT UP
    (separable) to raise; erect; build

    The construction workers put the buildings up in just a few days.
PUT UP
    (separable) to accommodate; provide food a shelter to

    The government put the refugees up in temporary housing.
RACK UP
    (separable) to accumulate in number (score)

    You’d better watch where you park. You’re really racking up the parking tickets.
RIP UP
    (separable) to tear something into pieces

    The teacher ripped Max's test up because he caught Max cheating.
SAVE UP
    (separable) to collect money for future use

    Max is saving up for a brand new car.
SCREW UP
    (separable) to make a mistake or do something wrong

    Max screwed up his relationship with Mary.
SET UP
    (separable) to start, organize, or configure

    Max asked Mary to set up his computer.
SPEAK UP
    (intransitive) to speak more loudly

    Speak up. I can't hear you.
SPLIT UP
    (separable) to divide

    The bank robbers split the money up equally.
STAND UP
    (intransitive) to rise to an erect position

    All of the people in the courtroom stood up when the judge entered.
TAKE UP
    (separable) to pursue; turn one’s interest to

    Max decided to take up golfing.
TAKE UP
    (separable) to consume or fill time or space

    Homework takes up all of my time.
TANGLE UP
    (separable) to twist and mix together into a confused mass

    Max accidentally tangled the electrical cords up.
THROW UP
    (separable) to vomit

    Mary ate so many cookies that she threw up.
TURN UP
    (separable) to increase

    Please turn the radio up. I can hardly hear it.
USE UP
    (separable) to use all of

    Mary got mad at Max for using all of the toothpaste.
ZIP UP
    (separable) to close with a zipper

    Everyone was staring because Max forgot to zip up his pants.
